the grand canyon in arizona is bigger
than the state of rhode island
you could even fit the whole of
manhattan in there it's so massive
it kind of has its own weather but the
grand canyon
isn't the only big crack out there
the valles marineris is bigger way
bigger
it's on mars and it goes nearly a
quarter of the way round the planet
it's ten times as long as the grand
canyon and it's so deep
you could parachute into it
the kesai valles is also on mars it's
made up of a series of canyons
and it might be the ancient home of a
massive mars flood
there are huge canals and canyons all
over the red planet
there's tuvalus that's where researchers
think there was an epic battle between
ancient martian water
and boiling hot volcanic lava guess we
know who won that one
equally impressive is aries valles
it's the longest known drainage system
around it might be weird to think of
mars as having huge waterways
rivers and floodplains but in its early
days
mars might have had a warm and wet
climate now it's just dried up canyons
as far as the eye can see
[Music]
the ithaca chasma looks like a giant
scar
on saturn's moon tethys it's
four times longer than the grand canyon
and about three times as deep
and it's billions of years old
no one's been kayaking there yet we've
only seen a photo of it
thanks to the spacecraft voyager 1.
mercury's great valley makes the grand
canyon look like a tiny pothole
nasa's messenger spacecraft was the
first to snap some photos of this
massive formation
the valleys surrounded by two giant
somethings
the enterprise and belgica whatever that
means
[Music]
pluto's largest moon charon has a canyon
named argo chasma
and it's huge even though pluto's not
called a planet anymore
it can still brag about its huge canyon
even right here on earth the grand
canyon has some serious rivals
yarlung tsungpo canyon is the deepest
canyon on earth
it's in the himalayas in tibet some
people call it the everest of
canyons you could fit a 2 000 story
building in it
the indus river gorge is big and gnarly
it's in pakistan and you could stack
three football fields inside it
the indus river one of the largest
rivers in asia
passes through it and it's even home to
baleen whales and
porpoises the kolka canyon in peru
is a short but insanely bumpy bus ride
away from machu picchu
it's the massive home for the largest
flying bird in the world
the andean condor it has a wingspan of
10 feet
[Music]
in nepal where the himalayas are is the
spectacular
kali gandaki gorge no one knows exactly
how far
down it goes but it's probably around
five times as deep as the grand canyon
it's got it all crazy terrain thin air
and it's in the middle of nowhere so
beware
only experienced hikers should dare go
in
the copper canyon in northern mexico is
home to a world
famous group of people who run marathons
or even double marathons
just for fun there are six canyons
all joined together and in its widest
part are two of mexico's tallest
waterfalls
copper canyon also has one of the
longest zip lines in the world
and one of the scariest train rides
you'll ever take
don't look down even in the u.s
there's a lesser-known canyon that's
deeper than the grand canyon
it's hell's canyon and it's sort of on
the border between oregon and idaho
it was carved out by the snake river
hell's canyon is home to the seven
devils mountain range
the king's canyon is in the yosemite
national park area
it's about one and a half times as deep
as the grand canyon
nearby is the second largest tree on
earth general grant
the largest canyon in australia is the
caperty canyon
and you can get paid to go there sort of
a few lucky cyclists and campers over
the years have found gemstones on the
banks of the caperty river
if you're lucky you'll also see some
2000 year old rock art
the tiger leaping gorge is right out of
a fairy tale
but it's very real very deep and pretty
scary
the legend says that a tiger was being
chased and
it leapt over the river at the bottom of
the gorge with a little help from a
perfectly placed rock
right in the middle of the river
the great rift valley is 15 times longer
than the grand canyon
so what that's like a trillion miles
long
it goes through two continents and is
home to about 30 lakes
it's even visible from outer space so if
you're ever floating out there in the
cosmos
keep an eye out for it the koda hawasi
canyon is deep
very deep it has extreme rafting
kayaking
and hiking and apparently the mosquitoes
are pretty extreme
too there's one canyon in tibet that i'm
pretty sure holds a world record
try looking up the polong tsung po
canyon
no images pop up it's 2021 that's insane
what's down there yeah probably just a
river and stuff
colombia's chickamauca canyon is pretty
much as deep as the grand canyon
extreme sports owned this place zip
lining canoeing paragliding
heck even their cable car is extreme
it's a 25 minute ride
and it's steep under greenland
is the greenland grand canyon and it
goes for hundreds and hundreds of miles
water from melting icebergs runs through
the canyon
it was actually nasa who discovered it
there's an absolutely massive canyon in
antarctica
the only problem you can't see it but
apparently
it's freezing cold and mostly white
the sea has some mighty canyons too
the zhemchug canyon is one of the
biggest underwater canyons
it's right off the coast of alaska and
it's home to seals
dolphins and whales the deepest
underwater canyon
is about six times as deep as the grand
canyon it's the famous mariana trench
make it to the bottom and you'll break
the world record for deepest dive ever
the grand bahama canyon is another
underwater marvel
you could just keep dropping empire
state buildings in there
and you'd never see them on the surface
monterey bay is pretty laid back but its
canyon
is anything but there's lanternfish
squid
sea turtles rockfish and sea otters all
hanging out together
oh and thousands of jellyfish so take
care not to get stung too much
there's also giant kelp around there a
seaweed that can grow up to 100 feet
long
the hudson canyon runs from the new york
harbor right into the sea
and it's gross sure it has
deep sea coral and sponge formations but
it also has a whole bunch of trash and
sewagey sludge
coating the bottom the avilas canyon is
off the coast of spain
it's one of the deepest underwater
canyons in the world and it's one of the
few places where giant squid live
it's famous for its white coral and the
fact that it's
insanely cold bremer canyon in australia
is underwater massive and dangerous
especially if you're a giant squid
that's the favorite snack
of the local orca the huge whale with a
monster appetite
remember canyon's a major tourist
destination these days
especially for those looking to snap a
pic of the more than 100 orcas that call
it home
the nazare canyon is near portugal it's
the largest submarine canyon in europe
and it's around three miles deep
that's six of the world's tallest
buildings it forms high braking waves
so it's become a haven for big wave
surfers
the canadian arctic rift system is huge
it goes all the way from the labrador
sea to the arctic archipelago
and it connects the arctic and atlantic
oceans
so picture this greenland used to be
smashed up against canada
some millions of years ago thanks to
this rift system
greenland's been slowly drifting away
think how huge canada would be
if you added greenland onto it